Organisms that lay eggs came before eggs.
Since the germ-line mutation that turned “not-chicken” into “chicken” is first “realized” in the embryo, I’d argue that the egg came first. It’s the embryo that dictates development, so that egg is a chicken egg, even if laid by a not-chicken. Whatever laid that egg was a proto-chicken, and whatever that egg is a chicken.
The chicken egg came first, laid by a bird which was not yet a chicken.
Further back there were animals that came from something vaguely egg like, which became more egg like over time. It’s hard to draw a hard line, but in this thought experiment there would be an animal laying something which doesn’t yet meet the definition of an egg, laying an actual egg.
The fun part here is that your definition of an egg is immaterial. Under any definition this would hold.
First, eggs in general go back much further than chickens.
Second, if we mean "the chicken egg" specifically, then it's "the chicken egg" that came first because we generally define individuals of multicellular, sexually-reproducing species based on their genes - because every individual has more or less the same genetic makeup over its whole life, a handful of mutations excepted, but every individual has a very different genetic makeup from any other individual in its populations and its parents in particular, given its genome is a unique shuffling of half of the genes of its parents. This means that if we were to define a single point at which there was a population of pre-chicken organisms, and then one chicken was born to that population, being "the first chicken" (which is an absurd thing to define, but you could do it, just like you can arbitrarily pick a wavelength at which "red" becomes "orange" if you need really strict definitions in some context), then that "first chicken" would have been an egg before becoming a chicken.
In other words, if we're going to draw a line between "chicken" and "pre-chicken" (which wouldn't reflect the gradualness of the change but could be the thing to do in some context), and draw that line to isolate *a single individual* as "the first chicken" (which would be a silly way to draw that line, but not that much sillier than any other way), then that line will most reasonably be drawn between the parents of the chicken and the egg (a step that involves big genetic changes) and it would be extremely absurd to draw it between the egg and the resulting chicken (a step that does not involve many genetic changes, and that's generally considered to involve a continuity in that organism's individuality).
Note that you can get the opposite answer if you ask not "chicken and egg" but "egg-laying organism and egg", as someone did here a while back. Though it gets into how you define "egg-laying organism".
While related to biological evolution, this is more question about paleontology and paleozoology.
Animal eggs have been around for about 500 million years.
Bird eggs have been around for about 150 million years.
Animals that you would recognize as a modern chicken have only existed for about 2 million years.
The egg, 100%. Say there are 100 criteria that an organism needs to meet in order to be called a "chicken". Only chickens meet all 100 of these criteria, no other organisms do. Now say you have a creature that is very chicken-like, but meets only 99 of the 100 criteria. We cannot call this creature a " chicken", but it's close. If a creature lik this laid an egg, where a mutation in one of the gametes caused it to meet all 100 of the criteria, we now have a true "chicken" hatching from an egg laid by a non-chicken.
Evolution is mostly a series of very gradual changes. If we had a complete record of every ancestor of the modern Chicken it would be very difficult to draw the boundary between where the first Chicken was born. Richard Dawkins has some excellent videos on Youtube about this. But let's assume we can draw that boundary. In that case at some point there was an AlmostChicken species. An AlmostChicken laid an egg with a mutation that resulted in a Chicken. The egg came first.
I always say the egg because chickens aren't the first creatures to lay eggs.
Yes, the egg came first. it's the only possibility.
Only a chicken can come from a chicken egg, a hen can lay a mutant egg, but the result is not a chicken.
so a non-hen laid a mutant (for the non-hen). The mutation is the genes that brought us the chicken, so it is a chicken egg. The egg came first.
Chickens were not the first animal to lay eggs, so when the first chicken as we know it was born, there were already quite a few eggs lying around.
Eggs come from chickens and chickens come from eggs: that’s the basis of this ancient riddle. But eggs – which are just female sex cells – evolved more than a billion years ago, whereas chickens have been around for just 10,000 years. So the riddle is easily solved…or is it?
Taken at face value, there is no doubt that the egg came before the chicken. We tend to think of eggs as the shelled orbs laid by birds from which their chicks hatch – unless we eat them first. But all sexually reproducing species make eggs (the specialised female sex cells). That’s 99.99 per cent of all eukaryotic life – meaning organisms that have cells with a nucleus, so all animals and plants, and everything but the simplest life forms.
We don’t know for sure when sex evolved but it could have been as much as 2 billion years ago, and certainly more than 1 billion. Even the specialised sort of eggs laid by birds, with their tough outer membrane, evolved more than 300 million years ago.
As for chickens, they came into being much later. They are domesticated animals, so evolved as the result of humans purposefully selecting the least aggressive wild birds and letting them breed. This seems to have happened in several places independently, starting around 10,000 years ago.
The wild ancestor of chickens is generally agreed to be a tropical bird still living in the forests of Southeast Asia called the red junglefowl – with other junglefowl species possibly adding to the genetic mix. From these origins, humans have carried chickens around the world over the past two millennia or more.
So, eggs dramatically predate chickens. But to be fair to the spirit of the riddle, we should also consider whether a chicken’s egg predates a chicken. As humans consistently chose the tamest red junglefowls and bred them together, the genetic makeup of the resulting birds will have shifted. At some stage during this domestication process the red junglefowl (Gallus gallus) evolved into a new subspecies, Gallus gallus domesticus, AKA the chicken.
In practice, it is impossible to pinpoint the moment when this happened. But in theory, at some point two junglefowl bred and their offspring was genetically different enough from the species of its parents to be classified as a chicken. This chicken would have developed within a jungle fowl egg and only produced the very first chicken’s egg on reaching maturity. Looking at it this way, the chicken came first.
Basically, many, many moons ago, there was a chicken-like bird. It was genetically close to a chicken but wasn't a full-blown chicken yet. The video calls it a proto-chicken. So proto-hen laid an egg, and proto-rooster fertilized it. But when the genes from mom and dad almost-chicken fused, they combined in a new way, creating a mutation that accidentally made the baby different from its parents.
Although it would take millennia for the difference to be noticed, that egg was different enough to become the official progenitor of a new species, now known as ... the chicken!
So, in a nutshell (or an eggshell, if you will), two birds that weren't really chickens created a chicken egg, and hence, we have an answer: The egg came first, and then it hatched a chicken.
Maybe the question we should really be asking is: Which came first, the proto-chicken or the proto-chicken egg?
All chickens axiomatically derived from an egg - if it is a chicken, it was once an egg. If we are to define a moment where chicken separated from pre-chicken ancestors, it must be at a specific offspring. That is, something that was not a chicken laid an egg that was the first chicken.
Fish lay eggs. What do you think caviar is? Fish evolved long before chickens or birds. Eggs only evolved shells when they were needed to survive on land.
Ergo, Eggs came long before chickens.
The chicken egg came before the chicken. The thing that laid the first chicken egg was a close relative of the chicken, but not quite a chicken.
This fits with what I’d call the common definition of what a chicken egg is - an egg with a chicken embryo in it - but if you want to claim it was a chicken-relative egg because that’s what laid it, you’d reach the opposite conclusion.
Obviously, eggs evolved before chickens, overall.
The first chicken was born from an egg. The egg came first. We can imagine that before there was a chicken, there was an "almost chicken" type bird. At some point, a genetic change happened to distinguish the chicken from the "almost chicken." This genetic change would have happened at some point during conception or egg development. Perhaps due to a mutation or due to the "almost chicken" mating with another "almost chicken" who's genes combined to create the new chicken species.
To suggest that the chicken came first implies that a non-chicken somehow transformed into a chicken during it's lifetime, and then laid a chicken egg. This doesn't make sense so it must not be true. Another way to look at it is that if you suggest that the chicken came before the chicken egg, that implies that a chicken was born from a non-chicken egg. That also doesn't make sense. You can't get a chicken from a dinosaur egg. A chicken necessarily comes from a chicken egg, which was laid by it's evolutionary predecessor.
I think the egg came first. Because the first chicken was a baby chicken. Ie, the egg.
The egg came first.
How egg laying evolved isn't completely certain, but what we do know is that the animal that laid the first egg certainly wasn't a chicken. If we think about animals and their proto-forms then we also have to consider where we decide the difference between an egg and a proto-egg.
Is it an egg when it has its first shell? Or is it an egg when two gametes meet to form a collection of cells that then grow?
Wherever we decide that arbitrary line, whether the first 'egg' was shell-less or not, the animal's 'egg' always comes after the animal while the egg (or other reproduction event) of the proto-species that spawned that animal always comes before it. With the case of chickens, which evolved hundreds of millions of years after the first egg, the absolute certainty is that the egg came first.
Proto-chicken reproduction event -> Proto-chicken -> proto-chicken's 'chicken egg' -> chicken -> chicken's-egg
If we take the evolution of the egg itself out of the equation then it becomes even clearer. Since evolution at the genetic level happens at reproduction, the point where a species is considered one thing instead of another MUST happen inside the egg, and therefore after an egg is laid.
Reproduction event -> proto-chicken -> egg -> proto-chicken -> egg which has mutation -> chicken -> chicken egg.
The chicken-like ancestor of the chicken laid eggs. Its avian ancestors, in turn, laid eggs. The dinosaur ancestors of all modern avian species laid eggs. This continuous evolutionary chain goes back to the earliest amniotes. But they in turn evolved from fish, and all the way back to the earliest egg-laying creatures.
Dionsaurs laid eggs, and they came before chickens.
Or think of it like this: Did an almost chicken lay an egg with a chicken, or did an almost chicken give live birth to a chicken?
Egg came first.
Absolutely 100% the egg. No doubt. All life starts in the shape of an egg. One way or another it was Absolutely 100% beyond a shadow of a doubt the egg came first. There is no doubt whatsoever. Absolutely no life starts put as not an egg first. None. Zero. Nothing. Even seeds from plants are egg shaped. Cells are egg shaped.
Egg.
Evolution was walking with animals that were not chickens until what we have today, but eggs were already there with the dinosaurs.
Someone asked this Chat GPT some time ago and it answered: The egg. There was a creature very close to chicken who held the DNA inside of it which lead to the first egg out of which a chicken would come out.
It’s a bad question, because it isn’t well-defined.
Obviously, eggs came before chickens, dinosaurs had eggs before chickens existed, so either the answer is obvious, or the question is implying that it’s a chicken egg.
Thus, the question is: what’s a chicken egg? An egg laid by a chicken, or with a chicken in it?
If the former, chicken came first, the latter, egg.
Egg. There were eggs before chickens and you did not specify that the egg had to be a chicken egg.
The answer has always been the egg.
Chickens come from eggs therefore the egg came first.
Birds evolved from lizards. Therefore, eggs existed before chickens existed. And the first chicken came from an egg. 100% the answer is egg and we've known that's the right answer for several decades now.
Edit: I meant to say bird evolved from reptiles, but I'm keeping my mistake above for posterity. You guys know what I meant! But still...doh!
The egg, but it was laid by a bird that was not a chicken.
Yep this 100%. There is a certain genetic combination that determines the first chicken. That combo would first appear in the egg.
Egg came first. Dinosaurs laid eggs right?
No matter where you draw the line and how you define a chicken. At some point there was something that wasn't quite a chicken and it laid an egg that had a mutation that made it different than the parent and that egg that would grow up to be a chicken. The egg is the correct answer.
The egg, obviously. The first chicken hatched from an egg laid by a parent that was not-quite-a-chicken. Overly simplified, of course, but the mutations mounted up until the first chicken was hatched.
I think most people think egg
Go to any dinner at breakfast, people are having eggs.
Go back at lunch and people are eating all types of chicken dishes.
Therefore questioned answered the egg is before the chicken.
The chicken egg came first. Simply put, the chicken egg would be the egg that contains the chicken as we know it, which would come from evolution over time until ultimately reaching a "chicken" which hatched from a chicken egg, given that it is the new species. If that's what you're asking.
The egg clearly came first, as there were many species of egg-laying animals (including dinosaurs) long before chickens evolved.
Egg obviously, because that's where all chickens come from.
Then where'd the egg come from? Well not all eggs are from chickens. So some animal layed an egg, and there was a mutation that turned the animal inside into a chicken.
The first “chicken” as we know it was at some point born randomly born from something else. That first chicken had to come from the random first chicken egg. So, the egg came first.
Egg. Started as a biological organism that mutated and grew into an egg, then hatched as the first chicken. Cells grow and mutate. No idea on the first origin of everything but I feel like the animals evolved after their hatchery was created turning it their breeding grounds.
The egg. At some point in evolution there was the first chicken and it came from an egg. It’s mother, while chicken-like, was not a chicken.
The egg. Chickens evolved from other species, so at one point there was the first chicken. And that chicken had to come from an egg that was not laid by a chicken.
The egg came first. Proto-chicken laid the first egg that hatched into what we now call a chicken.
Another way I like to illustrate this: which came first the rattlesnake or the egg? We can trace rattlesnakes back to a snake that didn’t have a rattle.
Egg. two birds that were chickenlike, but not technically chickens, did the hibbity dibbity and made a hybrid bird that we now call a chicken.
Egg.
Chickens evolved from reptiles. So somewhere along the line, a reptile laid an egg and hatched a chicken.
This is a gross over simplification but you get the point.
Egg. A chicken is a bird and lays eggs. It had to have evolved from some other bird or feathered reptilian species, which would have also laid eggs. Over millenia, successive species would have evolved, each hatching from the eggs of their parents, until the current egg laying chicken species we have today.
It was the egg. And this is a fact, Some birds similar to chickens laid an egg. But the bird hatched out was a chicken and not the other species bird.
Egg because of evolution. The steady move of a creature evolving towards a chicken and creating children which were closer and closer to being chickens means that eventually, one creature we wouldn’t say is a perfect chicken gave birth to the closest approximation to a chicken we’d need to say the chicken came. Neil Degrasse Tyson was the person who introduced me to this argument, I’ve believed in it since.
The egg came first. It's the way evolution works. The chicken was a mutation of whatever laid the egg.
Eggs existed before chickens.
Unless we're talking about a chicken egg, in which case you'd need to have a chicken to lay it, otherwise it's just something else's egg with a mutant in it.
Eggs...
We look back millions of years before chickens existed, and we see fossilized eggs from dinosaurs. If you keep going back EVEN FURTHER, you see eggs from the aquatic animals that lived before any living thing on Earth even managed to start living on land.
Well obviously eggs came first... fish, amphibians, reptiles, and other birds came from eggs long before chickens ever existed
Now if the question is which came first, the chicken or the chicken egg...it all depends on how you define "chicken agg".... Is a "chicken egg" an egg that houses a chicken or an egg that was laid by a chicken?
The egg came first if we look at eggs in general If we look at chicken eggs Then the chicken came first Lizard lay lizard egg that has chicken inside That chicken lay egg that has chicken inside.
The egg. Chickens evolved like everything else through mutations that were selected for. Therefore the first chicken to be close enough to a modern chicken to be considered one was an egg before it was a chicken.
The egg, obviously. I don't even know why this is a debate. Animals have been laying eggs for millions of years before chicken evolved.
From a biological perspective, it is believed that the egg came first, as it was laid by a bird that was not quite a chicken but was a close evolutionary ancestor. This egg contained a genetic mutation that resulted in the bird inside hatching with the traits that we now associate with a chicken, such as its unique beak shape and feather pattern. Therefore, while the chicken may not have existed in its current form before the egg, the egg itself was laid by a bird that was a precursor to the modern-day chicken.
Egg.
Chickens didn't always exist. They had to evolve from not-chicken.
Depending on where you demarcate the line, genetically, you could establish chicken vs not-chicken. There must always be an egg with the newly-mutated gene sequence to make chicken. This does assume you draw the line between two egg-laying species. You could theoretically go all the way back to egg-laying being an evolutionary aspect of a line of new creatures to define chicken from not-chicken, but it would be so far back that the classification of species would practically be moot. Chicken, by how we define its species, always has to have its genesis by hatching from an egg. So, the egg came first.
The egg. I guess. Something close to a chicken but not quite a chicken had eventually evolved to start laying chicken eggs, and the evolutions continued to breed until modern day chickens and roosters came along. Makes sense to me.
The egg. The chicken must come from somewhere, and the egg could be layed by something else. And then the egg didn't evolve as it should, therefore being hatched as something else..
Defects. That them being bred and thats how you create new species and races... Kind of like dog breeds. Or blue eyes. It's birth defects.
Haha oh right, it's not just any egg, is it? It's THE egg. We all know the one, that egg. A certain, unmistakable, one and only egg. I know all about that egg because I'm in know about stuff just like you guys. We're all talking about the same egg here. I won't describe it because that'd be silly but someone will probably need clarify which egg at same point to the losers who are out of the loop.
The egg came first, laid by a creature similar to a chicken, and a chicken came out of it.
So the (other creature's) egg came before the chicken. However, the chicken came before the chicken egg...I think...I'm already getting myself confused...
Obviously the egg. There was a miniscule difference between the mother and the offspring, making it the first of its kind. The first ever, true chicken, was hatched from an egg. The not guide yet chicken did not transform into a true chicken during its life time. No, the change occurred with the birth of the genetically different offspring.
Of the two of them,Egg isnt restricted by the need to be specificaly related to the chicken,it could be literaly from any animal that lay egg,therefore,unless its specificaly a chicken egg,there is no debate to have,the egg clearly came first.
If you mean literally chicken, then the egg came first since chickens, as a species, are only several thousand years old, while eggs can be traced back hundreds of millions.
The chicken came first if you're speaking specifically about a chicken and chicken's egg. You can't have the reproductive output of an organism without the organism.
It also doesn't matter if you're talking about, specifically, the chicken and the chicken egg or organisms that produce eggs and eggs. The organism has to first exist for an egg to be produced by it. So, at the origin of eggs, there must first be an organism that produces an egg.
When talking about chickens and chicken eggs, it wasn't a chicken egg if it didn't come from a chicken, then it was some other kind of egg.
However, if you're talking about the species chicken and eggs the item; then other organisms were producing eggs before the current species "chicken" came about.
Chicken came first. The protein that makes up egg shells in only found inside chickens.
Chicken, because the world spawns them in without eggs.
Chicken because there will be no egg if there is no chicken.

It’s actually not at all difficult to think about.
Firstly, many animals lay eggs. Not just chickens. So, it’s well established that the egg came before the chicken.
But if you are referring to the chicken egg, then the chicken came first. And here is the process.
There is an animal that is similar to a chicken. We will call it a ducken.
Well the duckens go for a walk one day. Half the flock goes left of the mountains and the other half goes right of the mounts.
There is then a lava flow which makes it impossible for these groups of duckens to ever meet again. Sad.
Many years go by and the land to the left of the mountains gets very swampy and one of them is born with a genetic mutation of having webbed feet. It’s a duck. The first duck. Born out of a ducken egg.
The duckens to the right of the mountain habe the opposite problem. It’s dry. And hot. And the seeds are tough and hard to eat. But one ducken is born out of a ducken egg, and it’s got a sharp short beak. It’s a chicken the first chicken.
So there you have it. All the girl duckens see how cool these two mutants are and they flock to them. And soon you’ve got two totally new species. Ducks and chickens.
Chicken, i belive in creation thats why.
• The age-old question of the chicken and the egg. How delightful it is to ponder such mysteries! Imagine, if you will, a great cosmic hen, laying an egg that contains the universe itself. And from this egg hatches a chicken, who in turn lays another cosmic egg. Which came first, you ask? Why, they are but two aspects of the same eternal cycle, each giving rise to the other in an endless dance of creation and transformation. To seek a definitive answer is to miss the point entirely, for in the realm of the infinite, there is no beginning and no end, only the ceaseless flow of existence.
The chicken and the egg exist in a state of constant transformation, each giving rise to the other in an endless cycle. Just as day turns into night and night turns into day, the chicken becomes the egg and the egg becomes the chicken. In the grand dance of existence, there is no first or last, only the eternal interplay of opposites.
 If we ponder the chicken and the egg, we find that they are but two facets of the same cosmic mystery. Just as the river flows into the sea and the sea gives birth to the river, so too does the chicken emerge from the egg and the egg from the chicken. In the boundless expanse of the Tao, there is no beginning or end, only the ceaseless transformation of all things.
The chicken and the egg are like the yin and yang, each containing the seed of the other within itself. Just as the seed contains the potential for the tree and the tree produces the seed, so too does the egg hold the promise of the chicken and the chicken gives rise to the egg. In the dance of creation, there is no first or last, only the harmonious interplay of opposites.
Consider the chicken and the egg as part of the great transformation of the ten thousand things. Just as the seasons cycle endlessly from spring to winter and back again, so too does the egg become the chicken and the chicken lay the egg. In the vast symphony of existence, there is no fixed order, only the ever-changing harmony of creation.
The chicken came first. Eggs can’t get aroused.
There’s no clear point in time during which speciation occurred to such a degree that the chicken’s closest ancestor stopped being that and started being a chicken. This is a stupid question.
First we'd have to establish what the chicken evolved from and if that creature laid eggs. If it did lay eggs then the egg came first. If it didn't lay eggs then we'd have to assume that the chicken came first then evolved into an egg laying species.
It's one of those classic conundrums that has puzzled many for a long time! The answer might depend on how you define "chicken" or "egg." From an evolutionary perspective, there were predecessors to the chicken that laid eggs, and through gradual changes, the modern chicken emerged. So, in that sense, the egg (from a precursor bird) came first, giving rise to the chicken as we know it. It's an intriguing question that sparks a lot of philosophical and scientific discussions.
Depends on your belief system. Do you believe in evolution or creation?
If you believe in creation, then the chicken came first.
If you believe in evolution, the the egg came first. There was a not-quite-a-chicjen thing that, due to mutations, laid the first actual chicken egg.
Chickens, eggs don’t appear like magic, they need a chicken or some animal close enough. Which are made by cells, like any living creatures.
Well... I would say the chicken. The egg the first chicken was hatched from was laid by a bird that was not-yet-exactly-a-chicken. So the first chicken was technically not hatched from a chicken egg.
It is a bit easier if one understands how evolution works with its random mutations and stuff.
It's a question of religion vs science. If the chicken came first you're religious. If the egg came first your scientific.
If God created all things he wouldn't have made a bunch of eggs. He would have made already living creatures. Thus the chicken. Who would lay the first egg.
If you subscribe to evolution, then the creature that first laid the chicken egg, wasn't a chicken. It was a genetic ancestor, similar to, but not quite a chicken. The egg would hatch a chicken so surely its a chicken egg.
This is all speculation on my part. I don't understand God, evolution, or chicken's.
It's all to do with time. The length of time that something took to evolve into an animal from a single called organism is so vast its almost incomprehensible. In the journey of evolution nothing happens quickly so neither came first.
The chicken.
The first 'chicken' 3.5 billion years was spontaneous made in a very rare event that only happened once likely. The first replicator.
The egg is a copy of a replicator and the first 'egg' would had made shortly after the first 'chicken'. Back then it would had been a 1:1 copy straight away with no developmental time at all.
As far as chickens and chicken eggs go, it was definitely the chicken. There’s a hormone that is present in the eggshell that only is found in chickens.
Idk i feel it depends on what you believe a creationist would believe the chicken came first evolutionarily the egg came first laid by something close to but technically not a chicken.
Tiny things like amino acids and protein structures came first, each made up of atoms with different electrical charges that made certain structures attracted to certain other structures and also repellent to different specific structures. These different magnetic charges determined the structure those proteins would take shape and formed the first simple organelles that created the first cells and simple celled biology. Multicelluar organisms like chickens developed alongside these already existing cellular biological / reproductive processes and gradually, over many generations, evolved those processes to include eggs in their reproductive cycle.
So, the real answer is neither because they both arrived and developed simultaneously.
If you assume the question is asking about chicken eggs and not generic eggs...
Then it's a question of whether or not you consider the egg that the first chicken was born from a chicken egg because a chicken came from it, or a not-quite-a-chicken egg because it was laid by not-quite-a-chicken.
If the former, then the chicken egg came first. If the latter, the chicken came first.
Speciation isn't quite that clean cut. You couldn't find a pair of birds along the line that became chicken and point to the mother and say "that's not a chicken" and then the chick and say "that's a chicken". Just like you couldn't point at a family of human ancestors and say the mother definitely wasn't homo sapiens but the child definitely was. It's an extremely gradual process (for most things).
Depends on definition. Is a chicken egg an egg that came from a chicken or an egg that hatches a chicken? The answer to this definition also answers your question.
The animal slowly evolved to be able to lay eggs. There was definitely a point where the egg we see today came about, and maybe the first chicken hatched from that.
There had to be a chicken first, to initiate the egg process. An unsupervised egg alone in the world would not develop to become a chicken. It would not be fertilized, it would get too cold, it might be eaten by some predator, or just blown by the wind until it fell or hit a rock and cracked open prematurely.
The egg wouldn't make it without a chicken.
I would choose the Chicken. As a Christian I believe God would have first made the Chicken during the 6 days of creation, because it mentions the creations of plants, animals, fish, and birds, but not the creation of their eggs, or seeds.
Chicken came first. Otherwise who sat on the egg for it to hatch.
Chicken came first.
If you believe in creationism, the chicken easily came first.
If you believe in evolution, you have two options for how to define a chicken egg. What lays it, or what hatches from it.
If you go by what lays it, only a chicken can lay a chicken egg.
If you goes by what hatches from it, you can only identify it as chicken egg once it hatches (or you use more scientific means to find out what's inside. So the presence of a chicken inside is nessecery for it to be a chicken egg.
The chicken - I believe in God! For those who don't, something evolved into a chicken that began laying eggs!
Researchers found that the formation of egg shells relies on a protein found only in a chicken's ovaries. Therefore, an egg can exist only if it has been inside a chicken.
If an ostrich egg is emptied out and a cat crawls in, is it a cat egg? No, it is still an ostrich egg, with a cat inside.
The first chicken was born from an egg that was NOT a chicken egg, which is the crux of the entire situation.
Therefore, the chicken came first.
My answer to this as someone who has raised chickens among other farm animals is this.
Long before chickens were evolved, bred, and mass produced there were other animals that laid eggs, and as the animals slowly changed closer to what we see as modern chickens they were still in eggs.
So by that logic the egg came first, for all birds, and for the modern chicken.
To me this is a just a litmus test for religion.
A religious person would believe that god made the chicken and then the chicken laid some eggs.
An atheist would believe that the chicken would’ve evolved from another ancestral bird that would’ve laid chicken eggs and began the species.
The "Chicken or the Egg" question is actually just "Was life created by an intelligent force?" Did someone create a chicken that laid an egg or did something evolve to the point where an egg hatched the first chicken?
This invariably is reduced even further to "Is there a God?"
I propose that those who say there is not a God are showing far more faith with far less evidence than those who believe.
Let's give the atheists the benefit of the doubt and say the chances of there being a God is 1 in 1 trillion. That's a lot of doubt.
The simplest virus ever found has 1,700 pairs in its DNA. We don't even know if we can call a virus a living thing but it comes awfully close. So lets just use the smallest DNA strand possible, 1,700 pairs.
DNA has an alphabet of 4 letters. A, T, C and G. Only the first of these count because the second is always determined by the first. If we were to simulate our mini virus with dice we would have 1,700 4 sided dice. To get a working virus of the smallest and simplest DNA possible we need to roll a 1,700 dice Yahtzee.
4^1,700 (4 to the power of 1,700) equals 3.1767 × 10^1023 (3 followed by 1023 zeros). There a probably fewer atoms on the Milky Way galaxy than 3.1767 × 10^1023.
If you started rolling these dice at the Big Bang you would still be rolling at the Heat Death of the Universe and still not have a working virus.
The chicken came first.
The question is sort of like asking "if I gave you 1 cent per second, tell me the exact second in which you became rich".
Neither chicken, nor egg came first. Chickens evolved gradually from their ancestors over countless years, generation by generation. Throughout generations, animals gradually came to resemble what we today call chicken, and throughout generations, eggs gradually came to resemble what we call egg.
Hear me out here, it’s all relative.
Like ofc it would be the egg of the previous species it evolved from but what if our concept of reproduction is missing some stuff? Like early single cell organisms evolving after getting eaten by another and photosynthesizing energy for it for tons of years.
I say chickens. Hear me out, why are we saying a BIRD is a descendent of a REPTILES. One reason.....GOVERNMENT COVER UP. Why? Simple, chickens are aliens and made deal with big money bags to the underground lizard people who live underground. Then the chickens landed and they plan their invasion when we become so advance we ultimately give it all to the chicken lords who run are planet now. WE NEED LIZARD PEOPLE BACK.
Linguistically, the chicken. Unlikely it was called a chicken when still a mutated but unknown mutation in an egg.
Genetically, the egg contained all the information for the chicken.
Catholic, the fertilized egg, life of chicken begins at conception, except during Lent when eggs are magically not meat.
Oscar Wyldeian…the egg, he advised to actually count chickens before they hatched because they are annoying to count when running around.
First came the Word of the Chicken.
No, but seriously, why the need to know? Kantian A Priori is only useful insofar as to understand a bigger picture, not extract it backwards to a tiny causation.
Reading In TCM (The Web That Has No Weaver) about western notions of causality being less effective than understanding the origins of disharmony rooting in climate, of cause and effect like chicken/egg intertwined. Within each of use lies the chicken and the egg, with the Word or Logos perhaps definitively announcing Descartian "Je ponse, donc je suis" a reinterpretation of Socrates "Know Thyself" inscribed at the entrance of the temple of apollo at delphi. Pithy advice.
It’s the chicken. There isn’t much of an argument. The chicken evolved from some other bird in the wilderness after we domesticated it I believe it was the Brazilian red fowl or something like that. The egg didn’t just appear out of nowhere. There is no argument.
It depends how you define an egg. By what's inside it, or what laid it. As a chicken evolved from something, if you define the egg by what laid it, then the chicken that came out was first. If you define an egg by what's inside it, then the egg came first. So the question shouldn't be "what came first, the chicken or the egg?" but "how do you define an egg?"
The chicken was first.. my debate -
Billions of years ago in prehistoric times, the chicken was a giant of a creature it had no feathers it was, in fact, a large beast, it had scales to help breathe. something like the Tyrannosaurus Rex.
Back then our planet looked different, there were jungles everywhere. The air quality was different. The oxygen level was higher and the humidity was higher.
Mother nature, in her infamous wisdom, required time to evolve. The oxygen content and humidity changed from a large catastrophic episode.
Some say from a large explosive volcanic eruption that caused the creation of the ring of fire that created 5 different continents - Oceania, Asia, North America, and South America.
The creature, we all know as the chicken today is now hatched from an egg but evolved from a creature over time and catastrophic events.
In the beginning, animals evolved and not hatched as the strongest would need to show its strength and will to survive. The weaker would just die to allow mother nature to evolve into a stronger survivor.
As our world changed into the ecologically sustainable way of life we know now the egg came to help the weaker survive.








